you got it thank you all right
um I am going to call to order the town
of Andover Board of Selectmen regular
meeting for Monday February 10th
2025 we are getting started at
7:04 um our first order of business is
the Pledge of
Allegiance pledge allegiance to the flag
of the United States of America to the
Republic for which stands one nation
under God indivisible with liberty and
justice for all
okay first item up is uh public speak so
I am going to start with Don Denley
because he was the one that wanted to
speak during the budget portion of this
okay so so car I be you heard now I'm
I'm online now yes you could be heard
okay so just like to um
make a few comments about the
budget which is looking like it's a
dangerous place this year with the
8% in the Board of Ed two full-time
positions and a couple of
upgrades and um spending in the thanks
thanks for the eye
roll I appreciate that yeah um talking
to me the spending the spending down
down spending and um I loss in the grand
list which I didn't hear the explanation
on but I'm sure I will at our town
meeting which I'm happy we still have
Town meetings
um my my concern in general has been the
spending in public works where for many
years we had three people in public
works um some older equipment that
apparently was wellmaintained it lasted
longer than we thought it would and now
we have five people one very wellp paid
supervisor and we have the same mileage
same roads um I hear this um comments
about cue saacs but I'm not a culdesac
expert but I think there are some ways
in this budget needs to come down
because otherwise it's gonna is going to
be a huge hardship on on everybody you
guys all know that just speaking to the
choir here probably
um so um I'll certainly be more involved
in the the budget process and try to
give input reasonable for Education
always have been been in town for a long
time and I've seen a lot of balanced
budgets and hopefully we can um bring it
down a little bit so it's palatable for
everybody thank
you okay um I'll move over uh Shannon
Lowden and Jerry K are sitting together
so you guys have at it
good I'll go first I want to ask the
board of Selman to support Carol Lee for
the open position uh she's not only
Republican party
endorsed but the town Republican party
endorsed her but the other people come
before you have done that
too Carol Le is different she's worked
for you she worked for the town people
like her she's Fair she's honest she's
everything I think that would be good
for your board of selectman I they she'd
make an excellent
member I'm also here to support Carol's
candidacy um I don't believe you could
find a a better member who has more
experience and knowledge about the town
of Andover and cares about the town of
Andover 26 years as our town clerk um
doing everything beyond what a clerk
should be doing and tremendous
involvement in lots of different
activities and committees in this town I
just think she would be a a tremendous
asset to the board of Selectmen thanks
for your
consideration Kathy and Mike
pazi um the only comment uh I have is
representing the Republican Town
committee and uh mentioning that I did
forward a letter to the board of
Selectmen endorsing Carol Lee uh that
they uh had supported her 100% thank
you Joan Ebert
I'm all set right now thank you all
right Liz
latch hi um I'd also like to just uh
endorse Carol Lee as well she obviously
has the experience knows the town inside
and out and um is fair uh well known by
everybody and well liked by everybody um
I think you can't go wrong with her and
um I
I guess I'll just leave it there you
can't go wrong with her she's she's my
girl Danny Hol
claw no comment I just I submitted mine
and writing to to the members of the
board of selectman prior to this meeting
so thank you all right Scott so yet are
you basically echoing what others have
said Carol has been such a great asset
to this town she would be fantastic on
Miss San I have one other totally
unrelated comment
um I happen to notice that the uh link
to the Charter on the town website is
still out of date it's still a 2022
version so I don't know whose
responsibility is to put that the new
version up there but I know it's out so
at some point somebody could take that
on okay Carol
Le I would like to thank you Jeff and
our town attorney for all of the nice
comments that you made about
J thank
you Marcy
Miner right I don't have anything new to
say other than I just agree with what
every I agree with everybody's saying
about Carol Le I think she'd be a
wonderful asset to the town she knows
just about everything there is to know
about the town she's Fair she's
reasonable um like said I just can't go
wrong with her U she's very popular so I
think it would be unpopular to go
against her so anyway that's it thank
you guys for everything you do and U
appreciate
it okay elain
bukar hi I'm just playing catchup I was
out of the country most of the month of
January and I'm shocked that Carol Lee
is resigned so but definitely I I put in
my hat for Carol she makes the most sent
the board of selectman and even though
she's not our town clerk anymore I know
she's going to stay involved in
everything in the town that she has been
involved in
thanks Diane
graner okay Diane you're having trouble
I'll come back to you uh Dave
ganian uh hi Jeff uh the chief and I are
here to address the um question of the
tax payment to fire department if you
need uh if you have any
questions Jeff you were
muted sorry my dogs barking in the
background Dave we'll come back to you
um at that point in time okay Kimberly p
um hi I sent an email in earlier today
just supporting Carol Le and that's all
I have to say for now thank
you Valerie
d uh nothing at this time I'm here for
when you guys address the
solar um Stephen
King I'm here in support of the artc
candidate car
and I think it would be a shame if she
receives any less than 100% unanimous
support from the current board thank you
absolutely uh Ryan
lerys hello I'm here
solar okay
understood uh Grace
Grace's okay Diane grer do you have your
your your
you there yet or
no not yet
okay I
hope you're you're a little tiny
but NOP I think we gotta re redo it
Diane
sorry okay I have a phone number that
ends in two three four five is that
attorney O'Brien not this
one yeah that's attorney O'Brien okay
you're good I'll skip
you um Leanne
Hutchinson T GR
nothing at this time Kaitlyn
Macintosh I'm all at thank you uh
Alicia I'm all thank you okay did I get
to everyone besides Diane
grer all right Diane grer I one more
last shot
is this
one yeah we'll give it a go you sound
like you have two two microphones on but
go ahead no I don't oh I don't know what
that is I don't have anything important
to
say uh we all missed Diane's birthday
last month so that was sad and just
saying not sad but happy birthday
Diane all right um we're g to move on to
unless I missed anybody and somebody
wants to say
something we're going to move on to item
three addition changes to the agenda
does anybody have
anything uh I would like to request that
we move item 10 a to 6B its action
related to the resignation of the town
clerk Carol Lee I'd like to move it up
to
underneath
the the resignation of Walter we think
it's it's appropriate that we talk about
that before the appointment to the board
I just want to clarify a couple
items somebody second that for
me I second that okay um I just want to
verify you know Jeff Murray you and I
just this discussion on this you and I
have spoken about Carol Lee and having
Carol Lee work for the town as in a
position I just want to clarify what our
intentions are and make sure that the
resignation has been processed
so that's why I'd like to move it for
those purposes so all those in favor
I okay uh anything else that we need to
move okay anything that we need to
add okay um Don Denley yourself M most
of the time oh forget it there you go
unmute now now now you're muted thank
you okay
um let's go to item four board and
commission uh presentations do we have
anything tonight Eric we do not do not
okay um item five appointments we don't
have anything correct okay uh item six
um resignation uh we received in our
packet uh a resignation from Walter
Weir Walter has served on the board of
of zoning board of appeals
for as long as I've lived in this town
and uh I know Walter um ran into some
hard times and had some illness and uh
sad that uh we will have to be replacing
him on the boarding board of zoning
appeals so if it was not for Walter I
would not have my house as it is
currently done and I know that is
a happy days for the people that live
across the lake and have to look at my
mcmansion so I appreciate alter a
lot okay item uh
6B action related to the resignation of
the town clerk Carol Lee um Carol if you
could I just I just want to
verify that uh you know I've had
discussions with you over the last month
related to this and I just want to hear
it because what
um two things on my
end one have you submitted your
resignation to the Secretary of State's
office I
have was supposed to be submitted I was
going to have the assist sign
but it's all F so it's filled out and
not
submitted
but okay but so so we're all aware just
want it to be stated you are resigning
as the town clerk of the town of
ad I am retiring
because no I listen you and I both are
aware I'm I'm very aware of you would
rather not resign the town clerk's
position I I and I respect that and I've
even told you I didn't want you to
resign as the town
clerk I am asking I have to ask this
very specific question are you resigning
as the town
cour okay thank you because because if
not it had impact on the board of Select
issue okay so now
for the rest of us on the
board listen none of us none of us on
this board can question Carol's
commitment to the town and what she's
done for this town for the 26 years she
served so let's all get out of our heads
that there's something going on Carol is
an unbelievable asset's community and
hopefully will continue to be an AET
Community Jeff are we going to employ
Carol Lee as an
as as an admin or in some function so
that she can assist the town clerk's
office in Handover moving
forward well that is not my decision
that is a board decision no I know I'm
asking are we going to propose that
that's what I'm asking I'm trying to get
through so everybody is clear as to what
we're trying to do here because in my
head you and I had a conversation with
Carol Lee when she told us we both
agreed without the other votes of the
other members which I would assume they
would vote with us that Carol is going
to have a paid position in the town
hall as some type of administrator to to
fulfill she has a 19-hour requirement
and we're going to pay her for her
services to the community to assist in
moving forward with the town cler's
office I'm for it I'm telling you I'm in
favor of that I just want to know that
there would be agreement among the Other
Board of selectman members to do that
I'm just one of four so it's up to the
other two members and you to to vote I
mean I just say we we make a motion we
discuss it and we vote on it okay I'm do
everything else no no no I know I'm not
this is this is this is a global like us
just listen we have not talked anything
about what's going on I'm just trying to
understand what we're asking to have
happen I will make a motion that we sit
there and authorize the Town
Administrator to hire Carol Lee in an
administrative position for up to 19
hours uh at a salary to be addressed
with the other budgeted line items
within in that
area somebody gonna second
that I did Scott seconded okay um
somebody rais their hands but
I'm oh Eric raised your
hint sure so I have a couple things to
say and the the first is
that um You probably ought to discuss
that in executive session because there
are some implications since the majority
of the workforce
here is
Union it would make
it difficult in some
ways for her to work in most of the
offices as a nonunion employee okay I'm
I'm going to respectfully I'm going to
respectfully tell you we will discuss
things in executive session but this is
being done in public and I intend to do
this in public so my solution which is
what I propos to Carol but I don't think
she's going to go for is that there is
no reason why she has to resign as town
clerk yes there is town could simply
make an agreement with Carol that she
works no more than 15 hours a week and
retains the title of town clerk as long
as she
wants um which is what I
suggested originally now but that also
takes her wanting that and she
apparently doesn't so but I want to and
Eric Eric I I I understand I I've I've
had that conversation with Carol I have
address tried to address that with
Carol that was my recommendation to
Carol we're in a different spot right
now so I'm trying to get through the
rest of this meeting to understand what
we have to do and where we want to go I
want the public um now listen I'm going
to be really honest with the public
tonight so I'm going to tell the public
as much as I possibly can related to
every type of decision that's going to
be made I I I really want
the board of Selectmen on the record
that we're going to hire Carol in some
capacity whether she's a consultant
whether it's a paid
employee we are all committed to sit
there and and hire Carol Lee to assist
and go
forward right how we do it Eric is a
different thing you might tell us we
have to do it this way the town attorney
might tell us we have to do it one way
we're going to figure it out but I'm
trying to get to the point that Carol
Lee
listen we went and tried to do the
charter revision issue to address this
issue it just came up really fast Carol
would never have given up her position
as town clerk she loves it please
everybody out here got to understand
Carol loves that position is killing her
that she has to retire and do what's
right for her
family but this is a situation where
in so I'm just trying to go through this
so that we're all moving forward all the
issues you ER are addressing are are
detailed issues that we all have to
resolve but on a global level this board
has to sit there and all come together
not Jeff Murray and Jeff Maguire and say
that we're going to hire Carol Lee so
the other two members have to weigh in
on it and then we have to sit there and
execute the process of what we're doing
I mean Jeff I think we need to clarify
this that this is going to be
a um consultant role only there's going
to be she's not going to be doing any
direct work as town clerk this is just
offering guidance and it would and her
uh employment would terminate once we
had a permanent Town Clerk and an
assistant town clerk okay understood
because that way that would that would
that would that would help with the
transition okay and you know I feel I I
perod I I would really have loved to see
that Charter revision pass because this
wouldn't have been a non-issue we could
have posted this position and and been
out and hired somebody from another town
a really good assistant town clerk
possibly but we've got the cards dealt
that we've gotten so we we have to do
what we have to do to keep the town
running understood and and I'm with you
100% And you know we both know that
Carol Lee um in her role as town clerk
did a great job for the community great
job for all the people and and it's just
it's
a Carol Carol was extremely sad when she
announced that she had to do this so
let's just put it that way let's all
understand where we're at what we're
doing so uh I just want to call it for a
vote that we're going to move forward in
that direction with everything Jeff
Murray said with every all the details
will be will be put out there but we're
all in agreement that we're going
to offer some level of employment or
Consulting contract to Carol Lee to
assist in the transition of the town
clerk's office right so all in favor I I
just I just want to make sure she's got
her name in for the position on the
board of Selectmen I just want to make
sure this doesn't interfere with that no
no no what she said before was one issue
I had to address I had to address that
she effectively resigned and this this
is
not this will have implications to that
because but it will not imp it doesn't
sit there and say discount her
from being one of the the candidates no
okay all right so you're voting yes okay
four nothing okay all right so just so I
I'm going to reiterate Carol effectively
stated on our meeting we have because we
don't have a piece of paper this was
always my issue that and and Dennis I'll
come back to you in one second this was
always my issue with what Carol wrote to
us as a board that she was announcing
her retirement and her retirement and
her resignation from the position of the
town clerk uh to me were two different
things to to other members of the board
to the town attorney they were the same
thing I sat there and looked at it
very I looked at it as she is announcing
her retirement and as an elected
official she didn't need to resign her
position as town clerk
and I'm going to go through with
everybody here what I wanted to do which
was similar to what Eric wanted to do I
wanted Carol to retain the position of
the town clerk because it's an elected
position she could have kept the title
as town clerk we could have worked
through even gotten to the next election
if we needed to um and it would have
eliminated some of the the issues
related to the problem interactions
between the Town Clerk and that Town
Administrator so I'm just sitting there
expressing that that's what I wanted
done I wanted to avoid some some level
of drama that's what I had hoped would
happen I understand from Carol's
perspective and it was Carol's choice
and I always told Carol it was her
choice but I had to get an understanding
if she effectively resigned because if
she didn't resign the two positions of
towned uh Board of Select member and
town clerk are incompatible now attorney
O'Brien I know wants to speak toward
that so I'll let him go ahead and do
that well I I you know I'm I'm
still uh I'm still a little fuzzy on
what you're doing um I I I don't Carol
has just said that she hasn't filed a
resignation letter
yet uh I wanted to know if an assist the
assistant town
clerk uh is an assistant town clerk
working in the town clerk's office now
yes has that assistant Town Court been
appointed
yes by you Carol
yes so have you have you notified the uh
Secretary of the state's office
[Music]
yes okay so that's all
set cor do you have an assistant town
clerk in in in the town clerk's office
yes
and she's
official yeah I I assume it's a she I
think I've heard that okay so uh I'm not
I'm still unclear on what your what her
position uh Jeff is going to be with uh
the town is it exclusively in the town
Court's
office we're going to work out the
details okay uh you know I I I I'm I'm
troubled a bit because there uh some of
you may know this but there is a state
statute on incompatible Town
positions and one the first one that's
mentioned in the statute is Town Clerk
and board of
selectman and um I'm not sure it applies
to an assistant I'm not sure it applies
to uh this the position that Carol will
have if it's not just as a
consultant but it really leaves me up in
the there as Town attorney in
determining whether that statute applies
to Carol's situation given that she is a
candidate for the board of selectman I'm
concerned about
it okay understand I don't know the
answer be I don't know the answer
because I don't know what you're doing
with the
position and
um I'm I'm I'm you know I'm a little bit
we have a lot on this because attorney
O'Brien we have a lot of issues we have
a lot of issues related to this this is
not a simple thing this has not been a
simple thing we're we're trying to work
through all the issues but right
now we have we have uh a resignation
that Carol is verbally delivered to us I
realize it's not an effective res uh
resignation because she hasn't submitted
it to the Secretary of State which is
problematic but understood I'm going to
I'm going to we're going to move forward
with the rest of
this we as a board understand Carol
Carol is Carol
is listen Carol is the town clerk's
office has been the town's clerk's
office and and and right now still is
the town clerk's office she's working to
train
someone it's okay we're all we're we're
going to try to do the best that we
possibly can related to that situation
right now the fact then is that all the
paperwork hasn't been filed and the fact
that we haven't moved forward as quickly
as we would have liked that's an issue
there's no doubt
anybody you can sit there and say
whatever you want there's issues um but
we're going to overlook those issues to
move forward and try
to get to the next step of this so does
anybody on the board have any issues
related to what we just did
okay so now I want to move on to item
seven appointment of new board of
selectman candidates and I I would like
to go through and do the interviews I
had called each one of the candidates
over the weekend I expressed to them
that they each have um three to five
minutes to speak and then the board of
Select members could ask questions and
then we would move to Executive session
and and come back and vote on this so um
I'm going to start with Carol Le because
you're 7A Carol um if you'd like to make
a statement to uh to the board and to
the residents and attendants you're on
the
clock thank you and as you said I served
over 26 years in the clerk's office I
sered five terms five
terms for
and Charter rision
commissions please
mute
sorry and sorry Carol Carol one thing
are you and Don in the same area he's I
had
yes okay
so he's got to turn off he's got a mute
on his machine as best he can right or
if you're on this you're not on the same
machine so you got two different
machines somewhere but go ahead Carol
and I apologize I'm currently on the
recreation and the
memorial I've volunteered in several
areas of town senior lunch program
Friends
library and the veterans
Monument
forck dedicated to our town and I will
be committed searching and
recs of our
residents I believe that my background
public service
[Music]
are oh you're Carol thank you are are at
complete your all set I was not watching
the clock but I think I'm within the
five minutes oh my God Carol you are
within the you are within the timeline
um I don't even think you went far
enough to sit there and say everything
that you've done for the community so um
please understand that
I mean I'll be honest there's only
there's Carol Lee and there's Kathy bloy
there's only two people that donate that
much time and energy to this community
without a doubt but Carol I want to ask
you a couple questions okay um Carol
have you registered as a
republican I have
not so I'm un Affiliated you're una
affiliate okay and then um Carol what's
your your professional relationship with
the Town Administrator Eric
Anderson I worked with Eric many years
he's
here I I'm sorry you echoed I didn't
hear that
part what are you asking I'm asking you
about your personal relationship with
Eric Anderson do you have a good
personal working relationship or do you
have a bad personal bad relationship
what is this status I as far as I'm
concerned I have an okay working
relationship and I do not have a problem
with
him okay
um now that that's kind of hard for me
to to sit there and and deal with
because from my standpoint you know a
lot of what I have to do as for
selectman is to sit there and run
interference between the town
administrator's office and the town
clerk's office back when you were the
town clerk so it's hard for me to sit
there and and
believe that you have a good working
relationship with the Town Administrator
because and I can give you some some
really easy examples I
mean order point of order this is this
is nothing to do with her uh discussion
of election to the
seat it doesn't point of order yes it
does yeah I agree it does for
me I mean I'm trying to sit there je if
you're playing politics let's just get
on with yes are if I'm playing politics
no relationships with employees or
anybody it has no bearing on us
like no bearing whatsoever and all your
questions should be stricken from the
record if you would like to make that
recommendation you go ahead Mr
Murray I would like to strike Jeff
McGuire's questions about carolene the
Town Administrator be stricken from this
meeting and this record
anyone G to second that I'll second that
all right all those in
favor all those
opposed
okay um any other questions for Carol so
just to answer that I've always kept
everything professional with ER and the
only other thing that I would like to
request is that you
discuss my candidacy in public session
please not
executive understood that's acceptable
to me is it acceptable to every every
other member
here
okay all
right let's move on to uh don Denley Don
you can please unmute now
okay Carol if you could turn off your
microphone for a
second how do we do that
Carol be able to speak you should be
able to speak y we can hear
you not
anymore okay great
okay I'm not I'm not a Electronics uh
specialist that's for sure um I'm Donald
dley let's be clear Carol Lee is the
heart and soul of this
town I'm here to offer to serve my town
if needed I'm an Handover resident since
1990 served on the Inland Wetland
committee two Charter revision
committees and eight years on the board
of Finance I'm an army veteran
self-employed
businessman have a bachelor's degree in
business administration with an
accounting
major I'm here hoping that the vacant
selecting position gets filled tonight
I'm more than willing but I've seen two
qualified endorsed candidates Lua Lee
and Stephen King passed over for this
Republican
seat I would hardly endorse and prefer
that you select Carol Lee to be our next
select thank
you uh anyone have any questions for
done okay
um we could move to 7B but I'm assuming
we're not going to move to Executive
session so we're going to have this
discussion in
public everybody good with
that okay do we want to talk to Danny
Hills CL and see who's on the agenda uh
Danny is on the agenda but Danny sent us
a letter uh uh withdrawing his name from
consideration and endorsing Carol
Le okay as long as that's read in the
record why don't we want to have an ex
an executive session
je um because Carol asked that we do
this in
public I mean if you guys want to go to
Executive session for a second we can go
to Executive session but we should
really have this conversation in public
because here's my thing Scott and I am I
am
um I am I
am I've tried to
not everything I've ever done in the six
years that I've been the first selectman
has try not to have any drama I've tried
not to have any drama even with this and
the goal is to sit there and put a
member on this board
but um we
uh you know you you you you're going to
get push back saying that you know it's
a Democrat and a power play I Was
happier with three
Republicans uh and two Democrats on this
board we were more productive we were
more collegial we got things
accomplished uh we never had a problem
so and I need everybody in the public to
understand that the prior board was
three Republicans and two
Democrats and we never had a problem
never ever had a problem never never
well and actually let's not lie let's
not we had problems but you know what we
did we handled them in
private and we had conversations in
private and we dealt with
so it's very it's it's very much
understanding that this is
not Democrat like there's people on this
board that are trying
to this this is this is not how it went
and I'm going to explain I'm going to
you know we need to talk about the
people but I'm going to explain the last
time we had this candidate position was
when uh in
uh 177 2018 2018 at that election no
2019 I apologize
um myself Jeff Murray uh Scott Bron Eric
Anderson and Adrien mandaville all won
positions on this board and when uh Our
Town Administrator at that time resigned
uh to take another position position we
wanted to appoint uh Eric Anderson and
the four members the five members of the
board or the four members of the board
sat there and came to an agreement that
okay we would sit there and do that and
at that point in time Eric was a
Democrat we sat there and said okay to
facilitate this uh we want to sit there
and put a republican on the board and we
compromised we put a republican on the
board and we asked that it be a female
member because we were five males and we
didn't feel that that was appropriate
and to be really honest Paula King came
on and she was the recommendation but
you know what I've looked at this Paula
King did not get endorsed by the
Republican Town committee she was
brought to us by the other two members
the Republican members of our board and
we voted on Paula to put her on our
board it didn't get endorsed by the
Republican Town committee so this whole
endorsement thing is is new to me right
but Paula was the
best I miss Paula I would take Paula
back in a heartbeat to get all of this
stuff over with and as you you may or
may not hear from Scott I I don't like
the drama and I don't like the biering
but there are reasons why everything has
has happened and I'll sit there and I'll
go through I'll go through each one just
so everybody
understands uh the first time we voted
Mr
King he was going to be he was going to
be a difficult person to put on this
board because we would have had another
member of the board resign and we would
have been difficult position so um I
chose not to vote for Mr King I would
have voted for Joe Godwin and I did vote
for Joe Godwin he was a reasonable
member he of the community he sat there
and put in a letter um I could
understand Jeff Murray not voting for Mr
wasn't endorsed by the Republican Town
committee that's fine I can understand
an K not voting for that person because
she's a Democrat you know the Democrats
on this board are responsible for not
putting somebody on on this board we
should have all been able to agree and
put someone on this board that was
acceptable to all three members and it's
not an issue at least for my end of
anything other than balance on this
board because I believe
everybody that is trying to put somebody
on this board has an agenda related to
what they're trying to do that's my
personal opinion that's how I've looked
at this and I'm going to move forward
and continue to do that because I'm not
here uh you know to be really honest I
know Jeff Murray is RTC through and
through and through uh the DTC kicked me
out of the DTC I'm no longer a DTC
member I couldn't attend the meetings
so I'm not a member I've been ostracized
from the DTC they didn't help me through
any of the issues related to The
Campaign nothing they helped an cre get
elected they did they did a good job
with that and it's causing us our own
problems internally they didn't help me
at all either yeah so so I look at
myself I have a big a on my head it's
Andover and it's only about Andover so
me too
um we we can keep moving on so um now we
have to talk about Carol Lee and I know
where Jeff and Ann are kind of come from
and I'm going to tell you Carol Lee
where I am I I Carol Lee
knows that I'm extremely honest with
Carol and I I tell her the truth and I
tell her what I believe to be the truth
and um there's nobody better for this
town than Carol Le but that doesn't mean
um that she's the best person for this
board of
Selectmen and and the reason why I would
tell you that is because as chairman of
the board is what I consider myself I'm
not the chief executive officer I'm the
chairman of the board I try to manage
what goes on within the town I try to
tell the Town Administrator where he
should focus his time and energy and to
be really honest we don't have a lot of
money money so it's not as if uh you
know me having a Democrat on my my line
means that I'm a tax and spend Democrat
I think Don dley sat there and said in
my first campaign if you want hire you
vote Maguire well I really I really
haven't been able to sit there and
increase taxes because we don't have a
tax base so uh you know what comes out
of it is it comes out of the taxpayers
like the people that own homes in this
community and we have to pay for
everything so so we've been trying to
manage our money my issue with Carol Lee
is very simple she has terrible
relationship with Eric Anderson uh the
Town Administrator and and I'll say that
very publicly and very honestly I deal
with more problems between the town
clerk's office and the town
administrator's office uh it was the
same situation as to the last candidacy
of Alicia and I expressed that to the
other members of this board when I voted
no on that candid candidacy as well
because we as a community have to ask
ourselves or me as the board of
directors and my position I have to ask
myself is it worth putting on somebody
that's going to sit there and deal with
someone that uh has such a slanted view
to the Chief Executive Officer of our
community that's what I'm dealing with
has nothing to do with Carol Lee and how
well and what she tries to do for the
community because she does do a great
job it has to do with how the of the
board is situated and what we have to do
to move forward I will get a response
from the other members of the board of
Selectmen that you can't house the the
Town Administrator without four votes
that's true but you can make the job of
the chief executive office of this
community a living nightmare that's what
I've been trying to avoid that's where
I've been at for each one of these
people Scout person and I communicate we
do I have had zero communication with
Jeff Murray or or an KET related to any
of these people that have been there
I've had some conversations with an
KET and and in the beginning but I
realized that that's it didn't it wasn't
working because I couldn't convince her
to vote for a reasonable candidate like
beata again gamsky who was recommended
by um um Paula King Paula King
recommended Bata for the position
couldn't get Miss KET to vote for her so
we're in this position we're currently
in with Carol Lee I am not this not
personal on Carol Lee has nothing to do
with her personally she is a valued
member of this community does more for
this community than I can ever imagine
and I can't do doesn't mean that I want
her to sit on my board the board of
Selectmen as it currently exists your
board huh your board right it is my
board not your board a board of five
people Jeff correct you get V I'm only
one vote I'm only one vote
y I'm only one vote I'm trying to
express to the community and I haven't
gone into all of the details that I
would like to because we still need to
get a member on this board well do you
know what do you know what the details
are gonna happen Jee and this is what
I'm gonna tell you what gonna happen
right now go ahead these people all
these people on this meeting right now
want Carol to be seated we're going to
make sure that's going to happen and if
we have to petition for a special
election to make that happen it's going
to happen okay you and Scott are going
to look like a couple fools because she
she's going to get overwhelmingly
elected let me finish she's going to get
overwhelmingly elected we are going to
waste thousands of dollars that we don't
have in a special election because you
two want to play politics enough is
enough politics politics is a tricky
word Jeff because when you say just
because you're protecting you are just
let's get it out there Jeff you are
protecting the position of Eric Anderson
I am yes you are in I know what I'm
doing he done a lot of things in this
past and I'm going to wait you want to
air it out now let's air it out because
done a lot of things that are
questionable in the past and we want to
make him accountable and you keep
covering for him enough is enough okay
so so so let me ask you Jeff um when we
moved uh so in October we voted on uh
Stephen King and Joe Godwin and uh we
skipped the November um session because
you you Carol sent us a note stating
that um and we're talking politics right
Carol sent AE not out stating that hey
um we uh don't have um uh we didn't post
this in the paper so let's post this in
the paper and sit there miss it but when
yeah let's give everybody a chance to
apply for it we give it 30 days that's
what we usually give 30 days for okay
but that but that's not what my point is
my point is Republican town the
Republican Town committee had their
their meeting on the 28th of that month
or the 27th of November we decided that
we would post that and move it on the
29th you already knew who your candidate
was so to my point to my point you want
play politics I I took it as hey maybe
that Carol and Jeff Murray didn't want
anyone to know that Alicia Lee was going
to potentially be the candidate for the
board right before the election and it
might impact the outcome of the town
clerk vote on the on the charter I don't
think it would have ever ever voted it
but you want to talk about sweeping it
under the covers that's what you did so
I'm just giving everybody a fair chance
to apply for the position whether you
already knew who you were picked that
was an endorsed candidate but you can
still you can like what you said earlier
Jeff you can you can vote for a non-
indorsed candidate which Paula King was
Paula King was in you in your own words
I that's right I W you
won't as a member Vice chair of the RTC
I have to honor the RTC for who they who
they endorse yeah Point Blank I agree
with you I know I know I know listen
Jeff
you you told me you didn't even go to
the RTC meeting where Mr King was
endorsed because you knew the situation
that we were I was not in the state when
that happened yeah I wasn't I didn't
even know they were gonna endorse
anybody to be honest with you I had no
clue whatsoever what was okay listen
we've had good candidates that we've had
the opportunity to deal with I'm telling
you where it's going to go if you two
continue down this path this is where
it's going to go and we're gonna waste a
lot I would love I would love and well
and and listen listen let's even go
because we're doing this all in public
Jeff it's really hard for me as as a
member of this board to sit there and
give you a potential candidate and you
to tell me that that person is too close
to me and you couldn't work with them
you couldn't endorse them that's
unacceptable to me of course it is Jeff
because you can influence anybody you
want and between you and Scott you two
can control their board with that third
person and I I was not going to let that
happen voted let's get it out there
let's get it out there that was I was I
am I am fighting to not let that happen
when when when I have a comment
too but one last thing and and I'll let
you go Jeff Murray when what has been
the biggest vote that you and I have
taken that we haven't agreed
on I'll give you just only one I know is
the bike this one right here this one
right here this one's the worst but this
this this one's because you never talked
to us you never sat there and said could
we do this you you you Jee you don't
want to listen Jee you want to ram
through whatever you want anybody else
and that is your agenda that's my agenda
it is to your agenda you just admitted
and to everybody in public that is your
agenda my agenda is to have balance on
the board let's have I I'm I'm on for a
public vote let's just have a let's just
have a vote and let's let the public
it's not what's in the charter we can
petition for a special election we can
petition and go
ahead um a couple of things one is that
I don't wouldn't say that we would
necessarily have bicker ing I think we
would have a difference of opinions I
think it's a lot better to have
difference of opinions that we can e
civil discuss instead of having sheep
that follow along which is the I feeling
I get if you have all five people always
agreeing on something so I think a
difference of opinion is healthy and we
should allow somebody else in and I'm
thinking that as far as Carol is
concerned I think it'd be better for the
relationships to have Carol on the board
of Selectmen than to have her in the
town clerk's office in the town clerk's
office she was always just down the hall
from Eric and there's a lot of chance to
have the interactions with her on the
board of selectman you're going to have
less problems than you've
had that's my opinion thank
you anybody else
no it's up to the two of you do you want
to have a special election or not that's
where it's going to go because after
tonight that's where it's gone because
we've gone three times with this and
that's what I'm G to push for because
I've had enough I've had enough of you
guys playing politics it's time to move
on Jeff you make me chuckle you are the
most politically active member of this
board out of any of
us it's the truth look Jee you're the
one that came out tonight attacking
Carol I did not attack did youing said
she canot get along with Eric I am
expressing to the community my biggest
concern about this situation well I'm
telling you where I'm at and let's let's
go we'll just vote and then we'll move
on because we're done talking about this
apparently
so you guys made your bed let's you guys
can sleep in it we'll just move ahead
let's go what are we
doing we gonna have a vote I'd like to
nominate Don Denley for border of
selectman
position is someone going to second
that doesn't need a second no one does
not need a second it does not need a
second right okay so I just all those in
favor all those
opposed Bond dley
yes
okay I'd like to nominate Carol leaf for
the office of
selectman okay all those in favor
all those
opposed thanks for wasting the town's
money guys I really appreciate
it
okay we've had great candidates that we
could have put in just letting you all
know Bata gamsky would have been a great
person Joe Godwin would have been a good
person we could have ended this in
October
so don't put this on Scott and I that we
didn't sit there and have opportunity of
course you guys have voted down three
nominees in a row so it is on you too so
if there's anybody to blame for the
special election it's the two of you
it's on you guys there you go and then
and then when and then when we have
issues that creep up which they were
going to creep up then we'll sit there
and all have to deal with the
ramifications of all of
that okay so we are now moving on to uh
item eight the Town Administrator
report okay I did not put a written
report in the packet my focus right now
is primarily on the budget I did want to
say a couple of things uh we had the
preconstruction meeting for the uh
Bunker Hill bridge that is on schedule
with an expected closure date for Bunker
Hill Road uh At the Hop River
approximately April 1st um so things are
going relatively well there um we did
get all the sound deadening material
installed in the community center so the
main room in the community center is
much more user friendly now um work is
ongoing on the kitchen we should have a
fairly functional kitchen minus the
stove uh in about a week um we still
have to figure out what we're going to
do for
the main vent in the kitchen um so
that's
basically all I have in terms of Town
Administrator stuff unless you as a
board have questions for
me anybody have any questions for
Eric
okay uh item uh 9A a community center
signage to discussion uh that one's
still on me I have to sit there and deal
with Elaine now that she's back in the
country and and deal with the uh
gentleman that did the signage on uh
Route Six so we'll put that off till
next meeting uh as well 9B discussion of
blight and level of involvement we have
the list there does anyone have any
questions related to any of those items
on the
list Scott do you have any issues
no and just one item real quick on that
uh
technically I believe at this board of
Selectmen meeting they will be
appointing the new uh zoning enforcement
officer who will then become the blight
uh officer so we should as of next month
have a new blight enforcement officer
also you mean the next plan and Zoning
meeting correct sorry what did I say
where to
select oh I said that by the next Board
of selectman meeting we'll have a new
blight enforcement officer
Zeo okay nine c solar at AES um we all
received a significant information from
uh the board chair the bo the B the Boe
board chair for
as
uh anyone want to sit there and say
anything about solar project here uh I
know I'm waiting for the Board of
Education meeting on Wednesday but
anybody have any issues they want to
bring in public about the documents that
we
received believe I think they should be
reviewed the the whole contract should
be
reviewed oh 100% but does anybody have
any I just wanted to tell you Ryan lerys
that's logged on here um Ryan lerys is
the person since
2022 that has been working with AES um
um our boards from 2022 until now um and
so I asked him to come on because I know
that there were some questions and
concerns and um this way you guys had a
chance he's graciously come on to our
Board of Education multiple times so I
figured this way you guys would be able
to I know he and Eric have already
spoken
um so that's
Ryan hi Ryan how are you oh good evening
good I I'm not sure that we were
prepared to ask you any specific
questions on the contract since we just
received it last week
um but uh I'm sure as we move forward we
will probably have some questions so
apologize that you had to sit through
our first uh hour of our meeting uh but
uh we will sit there and move forward
and and try to get you some questions
maybe we'll sit there and get them
written out so maybe you can answer them
by email which might be more efficient
okay yep that sounds good I'm available
anytime all right uh any of the other
members have any other anything specific
they'd like to ask Ryan since he's
sitting
here
anybody okay uh Ryan thank you very much
thank you yep um uh 9d the fire
department requests for self-contained
breathing apparatuses this SC CBA um
those were approved by uh
CIP and are included in the
budget they
are included in the capital budget that
I gave you corre um with a breakdown of
what how that would relate to the
capital budget and I think you have the
fire chief on the call if you have any
specific questions regarding SCBA
because he can answer those far better
than I
can
um you said the chief was on the phone
yeah I think he and Dave ganian are both
on the same line so
Dave or M I mean either one of you guys
just give us a little outline just so
the public understands what the request
is for and why so if you would um Fire
Commission put in a request for 20
self-contained breathing apparatus units
uh the current ones we have
now I can't even tell you I'd have to
say they're well over 20 years old that
I know um and the problem with them that
we have now is every time one of those
air packs goes out for any kind of
repair it's almost a$ thousand bill for
a
repair um so we're at that point now
where we're spending you know on a
yearly basis we're probably spending as
much to repair packs as it would to buy
a new one each year um the problem with
buying them at separate times is the
fact
that the technology changes over the
years just like everything else the last
time we bought the 16 packs we have now
was done through a Federal Grant and
they were all bought at one time so all
the technology on them was all the same
so at two o'clock in the morning when
we're trying to put on a pack in the
dark you know it you know like the back
of your hand because they're you know
they're all the same versus having pack
from two years ago versus a pack that
was made
today um and the request is for 40 of
them isn't that accurate or 20 of them I
I believe and I don't have the Fire
Commission stuff in front of me I
believe they put in for
20 um it was 42 bottles but I I'm not
sure if they because you you have two
bottles to a pack the NFPA requires one
one B one spare bottle per pack um but I
I'm not sure if that went through CIP or
if just the packs did because I know
that the bottles that we have right now
the the bottles have a shelf life of 10
years on static testing and right now we
are like 30 of our 45 bottles that we
have now are pretty good for probably
close to another 10 years you know
between eight to 10 years time so we can
take those bottles and use them with the
new
packs um and what we've been doing is
replacing four or five bottles a year
year to keep current with what we
have I believe the request was just for
the air
packs okay yeah the official request was
for 20 SCBA tanks um and then 40
harnesses uh was what they requested
okay all right I know that's been
approved by CIP and I knew it was in the
budget that we we saw so um 9e uh fire
department request and CIP approval for
the cabinet and countertop replacement
in the fire department um I believe that
that is being taken out of the current
year budget uh in the $20,000 range Eric
yeah that's correct pending uh three uh
bids um from the board of fire
Commissioners or the fire chief that
will presumably be taken out of the
building maintenance fund money
currently in the building maintenance
fund okay and we have not approved that
because we did not vote on that at the
prior
meeting correct we said we would do it
but we wanted the quotes and we wanted
to understand the final dollars correct
and I left that on because I don't have
that for you yet okay uh 9f a fire
department request for the tax abatement
we
um we have the request there is a
document in this package the town
attorney also sent us an updated
uh uh document uh that we should share
with the the Fire Commission so that
they're aware of uh of the wording
changes no structural changes but then
we should sit there and review that and
um because we're not going to really
vote on the town meeting uh for this
issue uh we actually have a little bit
of time on this we may have to come back
on the town meeting um
after the board of of Education meeting
so I'm just letting you know so on this
one unless we want to review it unless
somebody wants to review the tax
batement document that's in here or the
tax batement document that uh the
attorney the
attorney if you want me to explain what
I've done with it I will I can do that
really
briefly well sure go ahead well I won't
go over it line by line but I mean I
think they did a wonderful job with it
but um
I just uh changed I I made some cosmetic
changes um that I thought were um some
were I thought necessary especially near
the beginning the
title uh whatnot uh but uh some of it I
I just put it in language that I thought
was more uh appropriate uh for an
ordinance and um cosmetically
appropriate and and uh I didn't change
very much of it I thought the uh essence
of it the details the substantive uh
requirements uh and I researched this in
the statute was all absolutely correct
and it's just uh it's just a minor
cosmetic uh review and change of it and
uh that's that's all I can
say Okay um for the community's
understanding the the tax abatement
level went from a th000 to potentially
2,000 the $2,000 tax abatement is based
upon number of years um that fire
department built up to that and it's a
retention uh issue to try to get people
to be engaged in the volunteer fire
department all right any anything else
related to the
9f okay let's move on to uh 10B senior
Transportation repairs to the Dodge
Caravan sure so I put some information
in the packet um but basically currently
there's two issues wrong with the Dodge
Caravan so that everybody knows the
Dodge Caravan is a handicapped
accessible uh eight passenger vehicle
that is used for senior
Transportation um so there's two things
there's been some some damage to the
side skirts to the vehicle which have
had two causes the first is rust and the
second is impact um that need to be
replaced and the second thing is the
transmission itself is failing um we did
manage to get the vehicle to public
works but it's not drivable uh as it is
without a uh rebuilding the
transmission So currently those two
items would consider considerably
overexp the senior Transportation
maintenance line item so I'm bringing it
back to the board for
suggestions as to what we're going to do
with that vehicle um my suggestion is
given the cost of a replacement that
we're probably going to have to go ahead
with this because we can't afford right
now to be short one vehicle uh if we're
still going to provide transportation
service to the school and be able to
handle the other calls that we have so
do you have any questions for me on that
what year is it Eric it's a
2014 so it's 11 years old at this
point there any grants out there for us
to be able to replace that anytime
soon uh they just opened the next
funding round for the Fed Federal
Transportation grants the town will
apply for a new vehicle um and we'll
also so we will apply for the
traditional and the non-traditional
funding uh through that program with the
state however best case scenario if we
apply now and the application is due in
April um we wouldn't have another
vehicle for another calendar year so
it's going to be best case scenario even
if we get the Grant on the first time
around it's going to be another year
before that vehicle gets
replaced how much is the
transmission 9,000 so we got three we
ended up getting three bids the initial
bid was
$9,000 we finally got a signed bid from
Terry
transmission uh for about 4,800
and another one from Mike Smith's
Transmission in Danielson that was
4500 um you know both for full
rebuilds
so you going to take the
money so my suggestion at this point is
that we take the money from contingency
because we haven't tapped contingency
for anything and we don't there's
certainly no where else within the
senior Transportation budget that we can
take though that level of expenditure so
it's going to have to come from outside
the senior Transportation
budget okay so do you need us to vote on
this so that you can do it is that what
you're asking us to do yes I'm voting I
I would ask that you vote to authorize
both of those expenditures the
replacement of the Sid skirt body
panels um and the replacement of the
transmission now you talked about
getting three transmission quotes did
you get multiple body quotes uh we
attempted to we brought it to multiple
body shops but because the Sid skirt
panels are part of the mobility package
that they build in with the ramps um we
tried the local olers and we tried one
other place and neither of them will
quote that because they can't get the uh
Mobility Works as the only company that
can get the actual body piece to go in
there so um that looks like that's our
only shot if we're going to replace that
where's that
shop uh I think Mobility Works is in
East
Hartford so who are you going to send it
so you're asking for almost a total of
$10,000 to put into that vehicle
correct basically
4600 um and you know
3300 so not quite that much not worth it
not worth
it it's not worth repairing because I
guarantee there's more rust if the
rocker panels are rot rotten there's
going to be a lot more damage under
there that's going to be due to be
replaced it's just a matter of time
you're going to put $10,000 in this
thing in a year from now it's going to
have more
rot the question is what do we do with
the vehicle and what do we do with the
the residents that need the use of that
vehicle I mean and Jeff can we lease can
we leas with you can we
lease can we least a handicapped
accessible
van I don't know the answer to that
question I have not pursued that can we
see if we can lease for a gap because I
can guarantee you we're going to spend
less than $10,000 the
lease and we're going to get a reliable
newer
vehicle we are planning on going to town
meeting yes we are you have to sit there
and
uh and and what I suggest in the future
is we look at the uh Toyota minivans
because they're all the new the new
siennas are all
hybrids yeah and they're very very
reliable can I speak to that
Jeff sure go ahead and the reliability
of the hybrid um we just took that into
Lynch Toyota because of the battery
itself I believe that there was um many
hybrids during the last cold spell that
brought um Lynch Toyota an overwhelming
amount of vehicles at that time um I
would recommend not getting a Hybrid
next time only because of the cold of
New England
and the impact that it has on the
battery so we were without our brand new
um uh Rav 4 that and um we were out
without that for several days that
impacted the
um our medical um transportation and
what was the problem exactly um it was
too cold and it malfunctioned and they
had to restart the battery did you
pre-warm the battery in the hybrid
before what drove it um we do pre-warm
our batteries we do pre-warm and we do
have an inspection uh procedure that the
drivers do do and that lasts anywhere
from 15 minutes to a half
hour well the hybrid is under warranty
so if there's any issues it should be
repaired that's correct I have I have no
charge and what happened was we were
still without the vehicle for at least
three days and and and to be honest to
be candid test that could happen with
any vehicle that we purchase it could
right and and and I have a I have a
Tesla EV and I've driven it in 10 degree
and zero degree weather and I have not
had an issues so that's I I'm just
telling you Jeff that I know and I I'm
just telling you it's a couple days and
so I wouldn't I wouldn't I would not let
that keep me from driving from
purchasing another hybrid yeah because
if we just buy another Dodge is just
going to rot out as quickly as this one
and I agree with you there but at the
same time um we have medical clients uh
that are expecting to get to their
appointments and I would rather not take
the three days and try to rearrange that
so if you have a solution I am more than
happy to hear it Jeff um but otherwise
well all right so next time that happens
again with the dealer I would have
requested a
loner y that would have been easy they
have looners there they would have
easily giving you laer if you would have
explain the situation uh they knew the
situation Jeff I was very capable to
explain the
situation maybe that's why we need that
garage to get built soon
because I we didn't have any problem
with our hybrid Sienna because we hadn't
the garage overnight we could drive it
in the cold weather just
fine well I can tell you by experience
that Lynch Toyota was overwhelmed with
the amount of hybrid vehicles that were
in their PL in their office or in their
shop at that time and they were um then
this is a
2024 yeah that's what I have too all
good information to sit there and deal
with uh absolutely Valerie Bruno has her
hand raised so I I'm assuming she's
gonna add to this
conversation um I just wanted to say
since that vehicle is also like um a
vehicle that is that the school does um
work with the town you know we we uh
rent it from you guys um once this board
of Selectmen um makes a decision
could you potentially have a
conversation with us because since it's
utilized the town could benefit from
putting it through as our excess cost
because it's utilized a portion of it
for special education um and so you know
with excess costs the town does after it
hits four and a half times the amount of
per pupil spending they can apply for a
little bit of a rebate with that so
whatever you guys decide um in the end
um if you could have a conversation with
us maybe perhaps whatever it is you guys
are doing with that vehicle since we are
a part of utilizing it and it gets put
um on our materials for in kind perhaps
um because we do use it for special
education purposes there might be some
benefit to the town understood all right
thank you
um so why I I really don't want to
um spend that money Jeff on that vehicle
I do think we probably need to sit there
and look at doing it so
[Music]
um Eric how quickly can you sit there
and see about a potent I
mean I sit there and I look at that
that's a Specialty Vehicle it has a
specialty lift you're not going to get a
cheap lease on that really um but you've
got to give it a go to so we minimize
our expenditures so uh can you find out
if there are any possible leases for a
Specialty Vehicle like that and then
um we as a board probably need to get
together sooner than later on that to
make a decision as to what we're going
to do on that
vehicle
emails that's
fine okay I'll try to get you the lease
information okay I'll talk to Mobility
Works tomorrow yeah see what they say I
mean I'm assuming Mobility Works would
be the one that would give you the lease
or at least know where to
go I do know excuse me Jeff yeah I do
know that when I did call Mobility Works
that um a
used van to replace the one we have is
upwards of $55,000 a new one um and
those are rare to find he said um excuse
me $45,000 a new one would cost um
$65,000 around around around 65 for a
new
one okay and then Eric just as a
question um when the company gave us the
uh
body well it wants to met Mobility Works
did they identify any other structural
yeah structural issues on that
van
uh um that might be a test question I
didn't deal with Mobility Works
correctly
um Tess yeah I'm happy to answer that um
we took it to duboy Auto um which is in
town and then they referred us to olers
olers um referred us to another place um
what happened was there is a significant
amount of rust um one of those panels
the runners it's called with fall uh
fell off during um um route to a medical
appointment and so um
the um bear with me here when we took it
to dub boy before they sent it out for
transmission this is the second time we
brought it in um the second time they
did say that there was a heating
assembly hose that was leaking and
forgive me I I think that was the
diagnosis um and that would have been
$55 to repair
okay but did they tell you you had any
other significant structural damage to
the vehicle no just the
rust okay um Eric see what you can do as
far as a potential lease vehicle uh
hopefully you can have some success
there if um when you get that
information please just email it to the
to the board and we will sit there and
make a decision as to what to do as far
as repairing the vehicle right so Eric
has Mobility seen the van yet and check
the rust on under it or they just give
you a quote on the
skirts test uh again that's a test
question pretty sure the vehicle went
into Mobility Works because Mobility
Works is the one that took off the other
side skirt so they have seen the the
vehicle it's correct
okay we we probably need to get that
taken in there and see if the like the
frame or if it it was something that was
holding up the skirts that rusted out
and the skirt came off if the frame is
still good we probably need to get a
number for see how to replace all those
attaching
pieces we need to find out more
information I'm
say I'm what information you want SC
well was just a side skirt that rusted
out and it fell off and why did it fall
off you know what what happened that it
fell off tell you that because we don't
wash our vehicles and they sit there
rust on them for weeks on end right as
aside from that Jee we need well that's
I mean that's the reason we have this
damage and we have this vehicle rotted
out right and that's why last month I
just said we need to get a contract for
car washing these vehicles in the winter
because they are just rotting out in
front of us we can't with the price of
these vehicles we not keep just leaving
them sit there and with salt on them all
day it's not it's not right it's not a
good thing to do for the taxpayers to
just let their tax money sit there and
rot away in the parking lot we got to
get we got to do a better job of keeping
these vehicles
clean yeah that that's a solution that
we know we need to move forward with she
is what are we doing with this current I
know Jeff but in my defense I've been
advocating this for for six years now ER
Eric already came up with a plan for
that already he did but I want to know
what's is there attaching points for the
side skirts what rust it out actually is
it the frame or what what needs to be
repaired actually all we've heard about
was the S
skirt that's it they haven't heard what
actually needs to be fixed Sid skirts
didn't rushed off they fell off on the
highway zones no no I I can they they
fell off because it was rusted and they
couldn't hold on there was nothing to
attach to that's why they fell off
okay so to Jeff Murray's issue please
find out if there's more damage
underneath that we're GNA come back in
another year and ask for more money yeah
because once I mean to be honestly once
it gets to this point you can't weld to
rust it's it's you're gonna have to cut
it back so far it's going to be
irreparable yeah I I I Jeff Murray I do
agree with you there I do agree that um
this vehicle is a 2014 it's probably
seen better days obviously um it is not
in the prime of its life anymore but it
does serve a purpose for our um for the
citizens of Andover um being here four
months um we utilize that vehicle daily
and it is a huge benefit to the town of
andova residents or seniors and so um
yeah we're just sort of stock stock
where uh do we pay the8 $8,000 to repair
it so that we can take our seniors to
their appointments or um do we go
without and so going without also means
medical appointments but it also means
um different things that we use that
vehicle for as
well we got to find a solution for it I
just I just I can't see putting money in
this vehicle anymore if it's that rotten
and and I said there's going to be more
things that you can't see once that once
those rockers rot there's going to be
more damage underneath that it's going
to come to light so how about this for
starters it's sitting at public works
now
I'll have
Zach um take a look at it and give me
his best evaluation about what's wrong
with the vehicle currently
structurally um and what he thinks is
reasonable um you know for repair and
start what needs to be repaired exactly
that's what what I would like to done
now we know I mean I know because I own
an identical vehicle to that same year
same same model that those Vehicles all
have transmission problems so if you
told me that it needs a new transmission
I would say yeah kind of most of them do
by that point um I've been waiting for a
year or two for mine um although it's
gotten a lot clunkier um it hasn't
really it still runs so I've ignored it
on my own vehicle but you know that I'm
not surprised at the the rust thing
that's a valid point
M um please do that Eric and get us an
answer on that and then also try to find
out if if mob Mobility Works or someone
else has some type of lease program that
we can sit there and replace that
vehicle
with quickly and if we can't get one
quickly can we please get some price I
know Tessa's got some pricing but let's
get some pricing on a Toyota and a Dodge
or and just evaluate the price because
if we have to go that route and go
public meeting sounds like it's enough
of a uh important vehicle that we should
probably move ahead and try to replace
it excellent thank you
Jeff
okay um item 10 C set a meeting date for
uh these of five items
um I'm still waiting for feedback from
the AES Board of Education so at this
point in time I don't think we're ready
to set a meeting date related to these
items we did receive the fire department
tax batement
um the fire department engine financing
so that's in our packet can you explain
that to us
Eric uh sure so as you know the town
agreed
uh two years ago now to purchase a new
uh Fire Department Squad vehicle for the
fire department um and it will replace
it replaces two vehicles it replaced the
old heavy rescue vehicle and it also
replaced one of the engine
tankers um the newer thing that
departments are going to is basically
multitasking so this one vehicle takes
the place of two previous
vehicles uh
so it takes a long time to get them
built we've been waiting for it for
almost two years it's looking like
sometime in the May June time frame it
will be built um and now it's time we do
have to go to public meeting because
even though we've approved the purchase
we've never approved Finance details for
that vehicle um so that's what this
represents one of the the financing
options have we been saving for
this yep okay so that's good how much
money is in it so that's I'll tell you
in two seconds
the fire engine fund currently has
$430,000 uh in
it but remember that also takes into
account if we approve the replacement of
the SCBA gear that would be
$221,000 do of that the loan payment on
the squad a 10-year loan payment is
about
$125,000 Which is less than uh what
is that we're funding annually into the
fire department Capital Equipment line
so it doesn't actually take a spending
increase but what that does mean is that
with the payments on that squad over the
next 10 years at that level of funding
you know we only have about 3 $220,000
in capital funding available to the fire
department
okay
um so for everybody out there we've F
been funding at 137,000 or
$125,000 a year if we took a
10-year lease option we're talking
$125,000 a year that would be we would
have to keep funding that level funding
for 10 years and there would be no
increase in the fire department fund
correct okay
so um that's something for the Fire
Commission to sit there and make sure
that we're all in agreement with what
we're we're currently working toward so
we should sit there and and get with
them and make sure that they're they
understand what this is going to
do to move forward so you're going to
take 225 let's say 220 out for the scuba
tanks that gets you down to
200,000 and then 125 so you'd really
only have $200,000 left in that Fund in
years uh
correct okay
correct all right so that would have to
go onto our uh eventual town meeting
that we have
right
um the bank line of credit just so
everybody understands solar projects
related to the Board of Education the
bank line of credit is related to
funding that I mean we don't have a line
of credit within the town but it would
help fund The Bunker Hill Bridge Project
was 100% paid for but it would not allow
it would not require us to take it out
of our Reserve or our operational count
we could use that uh if needed if we
have got into a position where we had to
use it fire department tax abatement
everybody got the document that the town
attorney sent we should share that with
the Fire Commission the fire department
engine financing is in here there's a
seven-year 10 year and a 15year option
we have to look at that and vote on that
option that we want to put in front of
the town
meeting um and then there's an ordinance
uh circling out there that the town
attorney wrote relating to um
prohibiting dogs on uh athletic fields
and recreational Fields within the town
so that would also be voted at at town
meeting anybody have any other issues
relating to the potential town
meeting so we're not going to schedule
at this
point no and you're going to try to do a
special meeting to schedule or what is
your uh we might do it at a special
meeting we we we we what was the reason
why we have to have a special meeting
anyway we were talking about it
before
um what were we talking about before
that we had to deal with I mean we're
going to have to deal with the the the
repairs on the Dodge Caravan which was
the other thing so if we have to have a
special meeting that Dodge Caravan we'll
sit there and also put that there but I
want
the I want the Handover Board of
Education to weigh in on this before we
do what we need to
do okay fair enough
okay
um item 11 the approval of a minute
meetings for January 13
2025 anybody want to make a motion
anybody have any
adjustments I make a motion to approve
the minutes of January 13th
2025 I'll second all those in favor I I
all those
opposed all right Jeff did you
vote I'm sorry I had audio issues what
was the we were voting on the minutes
yep I approved in favor in favor
excellent uh item 12 uh Treasures report
that starts
on page 25 and continues
down continues down till page 20 uh
38 anybody have any questions or issues
related to the finance report
okay let's keep moving
um I did not see
um was there a town Aid Road in there
sumary Eric I missed that one I didn't
see that one I don't think that made
it I don't think that made it there were
notion transfer there was an overe
expenditure report we don't have and the
summary of the audit status nothing Tax
Collector's
report actually what is uh there was a
request I'm sorry uh I thought I saw
something 12E uh overe expenditure
report there's something filed in here
um so you were you were so I I filed
that initially assuming that we were
going to repair the vehicle so that
request because I don't have the ability
to authorize anything over
$1,500 on a line item for a budget um
however since you've decided that you're
don't want to approve the the repairs
and that we're going to consider leasing
options you could hold off on approval
of that
now
okay all right so we're going to bypass
that we're going to go to uh
item 13 The Tax Collector's report the
dashboard starts on page
41 so we've collected we have a total
tax base uh according to the dashboard
10,138 550 we've collected
7,727 74 still have $2.4 million left to
collect uh in the final quarter of the
year so we actually have two payments
related to this we have is that accurate
Eric just one payment left we have one
payment left in March uh yeah one
payment left got it okay
um this last month we collected $1.5
million
and we have $2.7 million left to collect
with taxes going back to
2008 all
right Tax Collectors update tax sale
update attorney Cohen has agreed to
assist of the tax
sale we have to uh sign the engagement
letter is the engagement letter included
in this yep starts on page 47
okay does anyone have any issues related
with um starting the tax sale process
with attorney Cohen
from pman and Kum
cumley anybody
no
um who's whose signature is required
Eric yours or mine I think it could be
either um if the board authorizes me to
sign it I can sign it uh but you would
have to motion to that effect um or the
board would have to authorize you as the
first La been to sign
it I'll make a motion that we authorize
the Town Administrator to sign the
Pullman and Colley uh a tax sale
engagement letter
second the process seconded by Scott
Persona anybody have any issues related
to
that all those in favor I I okay move
forward with
that and and just for the record all of
the fees for the attorney are related to
collection of fees from the tax
sales cor right
okay all right Department reports so
um the office of the
cessor gave us a 2024 Grand lists which
gives us a 2% decrease over the 2023
Grand list
correct so that is driven by two factors
um one is it's driven by the fact that
the uh State Legislature offered relief
to uh disabled veterans so uh a fair bit
of the uh real property um although we
did have a slight increase absent that
in real property when you add that in
that was a slight decrease in real
property and the second and bigger
contributing factor is that motor
vehicle
no longer get assessed based on na NADA
values they get assessed by uh taking
the MSRP of the V the vehicle uh as it
was purchased and uh you know basically
uh devaluing that by the age of the
vehicle so and there's a set formula for
that um so those changes both negative
impacted the grand list in the town of
Andover um that's kind of a universal
almost all towns Grand lists are
decreasing this year because of the
state regulatory
changes
okay all right we have all the
department reports in item
14 the assessor's
office the adjustments
$4,000 generated from the building
department Public Works
report and anybody have any questions
feel free to ask as I move through
them okay and that's it for the
departmental reports
anybody have any
questions okay item 15 correspondence
Eric and no
correspondence uh the only bit of
Correspondence I got I got today which
was somebody that sent me a letter uh
stating that he does not feel it's
appropriate for the town to put fluoride
in any drinking water in the town of
Andover um which as most of you know we
don't have any Municipal Water Supply so
I don't think there's anything
actionable um I did also get a complaint
from somebody regarding the commuter
parking lot on Route 6 um and I informed
them that that was state property and
that they would have to address that
with the state of Connecticut so that's
basically it for
correspondence okay Jeff could could I
make a motion to
uh add
the executive session that was 7B to the
end of our
meeting um you can you know you I'm
assuming Dennis that that should have
been done in the additions and
deletions Dennis
7B um it was we didn't we didn't talk
about it tennis in 7B
so oh the executive session on the uh m
well you can do it you have to vote to
do
it you that's ever
reason there I I would like
to change it to the end of the meeting
here right right now the 15a please
State the purpose of the executive
session please yeah you gotta you got
State at purpose think about I'd like to
make a motion to talk about
changes in down
V I have no problem discussing that in
public we got something to say let's say
in front of
everybody Jeff Jeff
Murray let's have an executive session
please so listen
we're going to go through public speak
and Scott if I understand what you want
you would like the four Board of
selectman members to sit there and and
have an executive session to discuss the
current relationships or how we're how
the Dynamics related to the
board
exactly okay no let's discuss it in
public and I will vote no for executive
session okay then then we don't need to
do it because that wasn't the point it
so if that's what Jeff and what what's
your
vote I don't see the reason for an
executive session right now no I've I've
made my point extremely clear to to the
board so I have no reason to go into
executive session anything you want to
say we can say it in
public we don't need to hide behind
executive session we need to talk in
public and let people know what we're
talking about
okay so we're going to move on to item
16 which is public speak and I'm going
to start with Don
Denley am I am I on now you are okay all
right um well obviously um you heard I
want to thank Jeff Murray for standing
up and saying the saying Point Blank
what's going on in this
town um we've been stonewalled Again by
the first
selectman um to put a great person in
this position and we knew this was
coming we we knew when you started your
conversation giving all the accolades to
Carol Le we knew you were going with
this I've known you for a long time and
I know your personality um you're you're
a power hungry fellow okay um you just
are you've chosen your own
self-interest and the support of Our
Town Administrator who appears to be
flawed at this point uh ahead of our
town okay you've ignored the will of the
people and and I love it when you give
me the eyeball you know when you roll
the eyeballs at me it's one of my
favorite things it's right there when
you catch me um at the opening of the
senior center and assaulted me verbally
privately of course um Scott personone
uh um the fact that you wanted to go an
executive session to say this is is says
something about your character as well
you're a bit of a coward and U very
disappointed in you was as well um this
we have a very difficult budget season
coming up and we should have a fifth
selectman on board um we can't always
have the handpicked person from our
first selectman even though that's what
he would like um I'd like to also
acknowledge and thank all the people who
spoke in favor of Carol Lee at this at
this meeting tonight that shows courage
and it shows where what the will of the
people what we what we wanted and that
was not taken care of
so um again um I guess we're going to be
sent to a special election which will be
maybe the first time at endover but
that's probably what's going to take
place and we will put um do everything
we can to put Carol Lee in the selecting
position and let's let's not forget that
um and those of us that have lived in
this town for many years as our first
selectman has is that Carol Lee worked
successfully with four
administrations Ed turn Charlene Barnett
Bob Bob burck all of whom I worked with
as well and then our new our first Town
Administrator the young fellow who
didn't work out that well she worked
well with all these people so the fact
that that Eric Anderson is having a
having a problem apparently working with
Carol is is is troubling to me um and I
think that I think that's all I got for
now but this we'll we'll revisit this
again this this item um will not go away
um again very disappointed um at the the
power struggle and the power we're
seeing taking place um by our first
selectman and um it will we'll Turn the
Page and um move forward but this is not
this this battle is not over thank
you Brandon
Laden no comment thank you Jerry no that
no comment thank you Joanne
Ebert no comment right now thank you
just listening to all of
this Liz low
catch I'm sorry did you say my name I
did okay my dog was barking uh I'm I'm
fine thank you all right Danny
holtzclaw no comment thank you Scott say
yet listen I'm embarrassed this is very
embarrassing to watch
that's it
carolly just want to say that I get
along with Eric he has a problem with
me and Jeff every time you came in to
talk with me not once did you say Carol
what's going on you came in and said
Carol you have to get along with Eric
you know what I've worked with him
I've helped him and I've accepted
everything that has been placed in my
office doesn't even well it's not my
office anymore but into the town clerk's
office that didn't belong there and I've
done it to help our
town and I'm sorry but you should have
asked me what was going on not just take
the five or six phone calls from Eric
saying that I'm doing something terrible
to
him Diane
graner I'll come back to you Diane
Kimberly
pan uh nothing at this time thank you
valer
Bruno nothing at this time thank
you
um wel come back to that Stephen
King thank you for uh letting me address
as you put it your board Jeff Jeff
Maguire Scott psan the two of you should
be ashamed of yourselves really uh to
continue to kick this can down the road
after being presented with candidate
after candidate that's completely
qualified and you reject them because of
P partisan politics I'm appalled I
really am okay my hats off to Jeff for
standing up and also an creme because
she Echoes Integrity she's echoed
Integrity through this entire process
and I have the utmost respect for her
especially as a Democrat okay now it's
going to hit the town in in in our
pocketbooks because this is going to go
to a special election okay I'm going to
make it my mission to knock on
everybody's door in this town and in
support of Carol Lee and get her elected
on this board so it's going to end up
with carolly on the board anyway okay
that's all I have to
say t
gr hi thank you um I just do want to
raise a concern in regards to the last
Board of selectman meeting that happened
um there was
a
um executive session and I don't believe
that that was um done properly I'm
asking that you review what the
procedures are for Robert's rules in
regards to um me being invited at the
last minute and not giving 24 hours
notice of um that executive session And
discussing my um specific role and
responsibilities um I would also like to
um just for the record um state that um
the probationary period um well I guess
I would ask the question first of um
where does it State a probationary
period and um how long that is um if
somebody could answer me that that would
be great um I wasn't able to find it in
the um Town Charter I wasn't able to
find that in the handbook for employees
and I wasn't able to find that in my
contract so if somebody could find out
that information for me that would be
great Caitlyn Macintosh
I'll come back to you Katherine mcal
Lewis hi yes I have quite a lot to say
actually um I like other people here are
stunned at at the unprofessionalism from
the first selectman Jeff and from
selectman
Scott um it was
sophomoric and to actually air personal
grievances
at a meeting such as this was just
uncalled for it was just bizarre and
leaders real leaders don't place blame
especially publicly on another member of
their committee and for you Jeff to say
I miss Paul would take her back in a
heartbeat what how
rude why don't you just come right out
and say I don't like an it's basically
what you were saying and you don't
because an won't fall in
line and I'm very very happy that she
won't because she does have
integrity and regarding your tiate on
the DTC and being kicked out of the
DTC I was chair then and and actually
this is on tape on Zoom so you can go
back and look at the meeting and the
statement don't even reflect what
actually happened at all it's the first
words out of my mouth were when you came
on to that meeting with Scot to help you
was we are not here to beat up on Jeff
we're here to find out how to go forward
from this issue and the issue was that
as first Selectmen you publicly said
that the person who the the woman who
had sued Jay for sexual harassment had
received too much money and there was a
mother in Andover whose daughter was
harassed was very upset by that and
wrote to me personally and wrote to the
DTC so we had to take action and that
action was still to talk to you and ask
you if you would please apologize and
try to understand how that woman felt
everybody was beyond nice to you no one
attacked you no one was rude no one was
mean I chaired that and I know it and I
have it on tape to know it and you
refuse to apologize all you did was sayi
stick to my my opinion I stick to my
opinion go ahead stick to it that's fine
but it was your personal opinion and any
good lawyer should tell you as I taught
in management skills that if an
agreement is reached or a settlement is
reached outside you say nothing nothing
and his first select to publicly say
something was awful you put us on a very
difficult position so that's what
happened with the DTC and as far as
carolly is concerned
erned this is just absolutely crazy I
will reiterate what Don Denley said she
has worked for multiple Town managers
multiple first Selectmen has gotten
along with every single one of them she
also gets along just fine with all of
her co-workers so the issue that tells
me is with Eric not with Carol but you
won't look at that will you or you won't
refuse to see that and as a leader again
as managers you should be able to
separate your feelings personal feelings
versus professional feelings and act
professional so I don't understand Jeff
how you come on and sing Carol's praises
and say she's one of the best people in
Andover and how much she's done in
Andover and then vote against her it's
bizarre and it's and it's tragic and
that's that's all I have to say because
I could I could just go on but I'm just
too
upset Alicia
no comment thank
you uh phone number that ends in
5475 lean Hutchinson
phone number that ends in
4294 Bob
hamburger yeah um I I I think hell has
frozen over again uh considering that
Don Denley and I seem to be agreeing on
something um most of what I'm going to
say is is addressed to you Jeff Maguire
um first I appreciate the openness and
cander uh expressing your reservations
about having Carol on the board of
selectors and for the record I think it
goes without saying you know how much I
respect your commitment to the town and
your intellect in general but I believe
that your reasoning has some basic and
fundamental flaws on this subject so you
expressed the problems you've witnessed
you believe you've witnessed between
Carol and Eric that they may have had
working together but I believe that
these issues were
fundamental specific to them fulfilling
their roles as Town Clerk and Town
Administrator
respectively and having Carol working on
the on the uh you know on the board as a
uh you know having Carol working in the
role as a member of the board of
selectors is fundamentally different if
for no other reason then there's no
requirement there's no need for a select
person to directly interface with the
Town Administrator in fact I would
contend that Jeff in your role as first
selectman I would expect you to be the
primary if not the single and sole point
of contact between the other select
persons on the one hand and the world
beyond the board on the other and that
outside world that I'm talking about
includes Eric also the kind of dynamic
that I'm talking about here is pretty
much the same as any manager in any
business the way that they isolate the
workers inside their Department from
everybody else the manager Act as a
funnel as a lightning rod they distill
down the inputs and the feedback and
they filter and shield their Department
from what's going on outside so I don't
see the kind of monumental breakdowns
and cooperation that you alluded to by
having Carol on the board but rather
something that might boil down
admittedly to a potential headache for
you Jeff possibly having to run
occasional
interference but I weigh that against
the benefits to the town of having Carol
on the board which you everybody else
have agreed would likely be
overwhelmingly positive with all that in
mind I'd like for you to reconsider your
position before the town is compelled to
take alternative actions which may be
even more contentious than what we've
seen here or at the very least like what
Jeff Murray alluded very
expensive that's all I had okay Matt
Young
okay I want to go back to um Diane grer
if you can come off of
mute okay did I miss anyone in this
meeting that would like to have uh speak
hi sorry I couldn't get myself off a
mute earlier either um just wanted to
say on behalf of the Board of Education
we will be um talking about solar and I
have final contracts to sign um for our
me meeting on Wednesday night so any of
you on the board of Selectmen you those
have all been shared with you guys if
you have any questions if you could
please um get them over to me uh via
email that would be great just so we can
get everything addressed um before so
that we're prepared on Wednesday um
thank
you okay anyone else that I
missed jef can I say one more
thing you already spoke Don
so it's a
no go ahead Don I always like to hear
from
you well I just wanted to thank the
board and yourself for running an open
Forum this evening as was said by a
couple other people least it was honest
and it was informative and you guys
didn't sneak in the back room um so I we
appreciate that I also would like to
thank an cre for her uh for her
integrity and for her open-mindedness on
on all these subjects that's it thank
you
you're here okay
else that's
fny all right um I'm going to make a
motion to
adjourn second that okay all those in
favor I all right thank you very
much you can stop the recording Eric
okay